so the topic today inshallah is about
the story of three men who got trapped
in a cave before we do it this goes
under the heading in a book called by IM
Hadith number 12 on page
22 and it's about sincerity of the heart
and the honesty of our
actions sincerity of the heart and the
honesty of our actions my brothers and
sisters please listen to this very
carefully because I'm going to talk
about sensitive topics today that will
involve a lot of young and older people
inshallah three main areas that we need
to learn in our lives but before we talk
about the three main areas they are all
based on something
called which means the heart's absolute
sincerity
honesty any action that we do will not
be accepted by Allah unless it is honest
and sincere the actions that are acts of
worship and you can change any act in
life if it's not an act of worship say
for example it's not Salah it's not
fasting it's not charity just a normal
act in your day-to-day life you have the
power by the will of Allah to change it
into an act of worship an act that Allah
rewards you for sometimes you might be
walking and find an ant colony you move
away from the ant colony for the sake of
Allah it becomes an act of
worship you know eating bismah becomes
an act of worship you're about to do
something Haram thean comes and Whispers
to you and you say to yourself you
remember Hell Fire you remember the day
of judgment you remember Allah you
remember what you're going to miss out
on and then you say I fear Allah and
move away now moving away becomes an act
of worship there are so many examples so
none of our Deeds can be accepted or
weigh anything with Allah if our hearts
are not honest about it and I quote to
you a verse
from where a conversation happens
between
between to Allah and a big debate occurs
when El gets jealous and envious of Adam
Adam Alam and he and he disbelieves he
he becomes arrogant against Allah and
boastful so Allah talks about it that El
says the following words he wants to get
us back he wants to get Adam and Eve's
children back for no reason we didn't do
anything to him but that's the heart of
a person person who turns who becomes
arrogant who becomes boastful who thinks
that the whole world is about to them
that even with Allah himself said no
this is not fair I'm not going to bow to
Adam I don't care if you told me I don't
care if the entire angels and all the
heavens bow to this man I Will Not Bow
because I'm better than him it's not
fair so he disbelieved in Allah's
fairness and
Justice so what does he say to Allah to
his Lord he says
[Music]
l
so the meanings of these verses are very
important said he said oh my
Lord because of this situation that you
put me in and made me go astray you
turned me into this freak that's
basically what he's saying because of
this situation you put me in and made me
as a result go
astray I will therefore
decorate this entire Earth everything
all the material world I'm going to
decorated to them who's them the
children of Adam he was so arrogant that
he doesn't even want to say our name he
doesn't want to see his children he said
I will delude all of them what's them
those insignificant beings don't even
deserve to be mentioned on my tongue
that's what said I will lead them all
astray by decorating all this material
world to them everything that will serve
their desires and I will make it appear
so beautiful so beautiful so amazing so
alluring and I will also lead them all
astray just as you led me astray I'm
going to lead them
astray completely and then aiss notices
that there's one thing he's got no power
over so he says it he says yeah accept
your worshippers who are sincere and
honest accept your
worshippers among them who are sincere
and
honest so he
knows he knows he cannot have control
over the worshippers of Allah not all of
them he can have power over the
worshippers of Allah but he says Min
meaning among them there are people who
say I'm Muslim I believe in Allah but
they're not sincere
and there are groups who say I believe
in Allah and they worship Allah L but
they are sincere and honest in their
heart they don't do it to sh they don't
do it to boast they don't do it um for
for a gain of any sort of materialism
only for the sake of Allah so says I
will not be able to lead those
worshippers among them who are sincere
and honest astray I won't have any power
over them then Allah replies and he
says
that is my Straight
Path what is his straight path the
straight path is when you do acts of
worship you do it with honesty and
sincerity only for the sake of Allah and
not associating partners with him Allah
says that's my Straight Path there is no
other path than that you want to do it
for any other reason it is not my path
Allah says you won't bring you to me
that is my Straight Path like
that and then he
says my true servants you will never
have any power over them except those
among my servants who also follow you
they will also go astray like
you okay so it's our choice who do you
want to follow Allah or
thean and notice that
the he says you made me go astray did
Allah make go astray did he go up into
his heart and change his heart and say
you're going to go into the Hellfire no
Allah doesn't do that to people it was
A's choice but you know when a person is
so blinded and they're so angry because
of their selfish boastful desires they
think they're everything everyone around
them is bad except them everyone around
them is the oppressor and they're the
victim even if he sells you drugs
somehow he can justify that he's the
victim even if he gets caught out and
goes to prison somehow they'll still say
they were the ones wronged even if it's
100% them in the wrong that's the nature
of the human beings that the Shan knows
about us he will go to your pleasures
and say I got them I'm going to trick
them I know how to exactly make them
believe that they're the victims
everyone around them is wrong their
parents are wrong their wife and husband
is wrong their children are wrong their
teachers are wrong the Imam is wrong the
people are wrong stuff this whole world
the whole world is against you and you
are the only one that the whole world is
against that's what thean does to until
you turn into a psychopath that's what
the shatan wants but he won't stop there
he wants you to go to Janam to Hellfire
he'll come up to you and say your sexual
desires get a girlfriend get a boyfriend
become even whatever become an
abominable sex maniac and the Shan will
come and
somehow justify it to you that you are
experiencing true love that Allah loves
somehow somehow you connected to God
he'll make you connected to God he'll
make you make up your own religion and
somehow that thinks that you're on the
right path and everybody else is wrong
you're going to Paradise
he'll do all these things right and
justify it to you that you are in the
right in Islam we all know that
boyfriend and girlfriend are Haram for
example and boyfriend and girlfriend
when I say you know what I'm saying I'm
not just saying like friend who is a boy
or a friend who is a girl boyfriend
girlfriend as in they've got sexual
intimacy together and then if they break
apart he cheated on me she cheated on me
they betrayed me or broke my heart you
never had a relationship really a
legitimate One to begin with I don't
know what you're talking about so this
is what thean comes in deor Ates it for
you and then we forget anyway brothers
and sisters this is sincerity and
honesty meaning if Allah tells me
something and it may not fit my desire I
may not like it will I still follow it
because Allah said it will I still
accept it and love it because Allah told
me and I know that he knows better than
me or will I refuse it reject it and go
against it and rebel like a bliss did
life is short so let us turn it into
worship inshallah and stay away as much
as we can from the Haram and repent to
Allah as we can brothers and sisters
let's move on with this
introduction sincerity and
honesty is the same way as we
saw prophet
ibraim and sincerity is your boat that
will save you in this world it is your
savior anything in your life that you go
through if you can work into clearing
your heart and having true sincerity and
honesty with Allah and connect to him
nothing in this world can harm you
nothing the Shan cannot get to you
through your parents through your
children through your spouse through
your the the people that are around you
through your work through your ups and
downs through your uh poverty or through
your richness or through your health no
way if you are sincere and honest like
the way Prophet ibraim salam's father
kicked him out of the house prophet
Abraham his father kicked him out of the
house and he told him get out onto the
street you're not allowed to stay here
if you continue to talk about this
religion that you're talking about and
if you continue it and you stay with me
I am going to Stone you with rocks until
you
die I will Stone you
ibraim absolute abuse in every sense of
the word spiritual abuse physical abuse
verbal abuse mental abuse emotional
abuse the father of ibraim alam and
ibraim Alam was only about 12 or 14
years old and then he replied
because he was sincere and honest he
said to him oh my
father I will ask my Lord to forgive you
I will ask my Lord to forgive you he
turned the situation into making Dua for
his father he felt sorry for his father
for his father's mistreatment of him can
you do that to hit the floor go to go to
the floor in suud prostration and say oh
Allah guide my father guide my mother
guide my siblings guide my grandparents
guide my uncles and aunts he turned it
around and he rose above it but at the
same time he was hurt by his father
tremendously yet when he spoke to his
father he did not speak to his father
rudely or disrespectfully but he opposed
what his father said disagreed with what
his father said verbally spoke but did
not disrespect you can talk with
disrespect and oppose and you can oppose
while still respecting I can talk to
you by disagreeing with you and voicing
my opinion but without disrespecting you
and disrespecting myself there's a way
to do it or I can say the exact same
thing to you still oppose you still
voice my opinion but attach with it
disrespect and rudeness and disrespect
myself and you can't I do that which one
does a Muslim prefer ibraim Alam knew
his father he cannot do that and he
won't do that and he walked away and
said one thing my Lord is with me he
will never leave me and this is called
sincerity and honesty and loyalty to
Allah or it's like theas and sincerity
of prophet Yu Yu Alam which part when
the wife of the master the treasurer of
Egypt who adopted who who who made him a
slave the wife of the master she was a
well-known uh wealth y important
powerful beautiful woman who seduced him
and locked the doors and told him to
youu do as you wish I'm all
yours nobody can see and the one who is
has more to lose or everything to lose
is the woman her power her status her
reputation her husband her everything a
dignity and this is a a young man who is
a slave nobody not known nobody cares
about him
and he's locked in a room and she's
protecting him so that he can do all the
Haram act with her as he wishes and
pleases but he was sincere and honest to
Allah as well and then he immediately
said I seek Allah's
protection
never and Allah says she fell for him
with her desires and he was almost about
to fall for her for his desires if he
hadn't known his Lord if he hadn't known
the signs of his Lord meaning known his
Lord that's called sincerity and honesty
and fear of Allah so much so that he ran
away from her and she ran after him and
grabbed his shirt from her back and
ripped it pulling him back you all know
the remainder of the story as a result
he ended up in prison and he said my
Lord the prison is more beloved to me
than what they're telling me to do this
is called sincerity andas he ended up
being the treasur of Egypt after that
Allah made him rise ibraim Alam what did
he become of him as well and the third
example of sincerity and honesty is the
prophet are the prophets who had power
Kingdom and
wealth
and they had the largest Kingdom any
Prophet had ever had or any person ever
will have in the future and yet they
treated people with dignity with
fairness they gave people their rights
and they were generous they didn't sit
there oppressing people and turning
people into classes of hierarchies of
rich and poor and oppression no they
dealt with people and D used to make
sure he made laws about business
transactions and there was a huge
punishment for that and yfam when he
gave out generosity when he was a
Treasurer to the poor and the needy and
he was generous all the prophets were
like
that so all of this was because of
sincerity and honesty to Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala that wealth belongs to who it
belongs to Allah your body belongs to
who
belongs to Allah and your parents and
children belong to who they belong to
Allah and so when you are sincere and
honest to Allah you know all of this
belongs to Allah therefore they are a
trust we have to look after
them and which brings me now to the
Hadith of the three men who were trapped
in the cave the Hadith my dear brothers
and sisters is narrated in so many
authentic books bukari Muslim tii and
others and you will find it as I said on
uh page 22 Hadith number 12
of
The Long Hadith is as follows the
prophet sallallah alai wasam
said Abdullah Omar narrates the Hadith
he says three men amongst those who came
before you set out until one night Came
Upon
them as the night Came Upon
them they wanted shelter so they went
into a cave to sleep the night away from
the storm and the
rain when they awoke in the morning they
found to their surprise that the
entrance of the cave was completely
blocked by a huge rock that had fallen
because of a landslide blocked them they
were trapped inside no way
out they knew that if they had stayed
there they were all going to die die
there's no way out they'll just St
starve to
death so one of them said to the other
friends and these were people who
existed before the time of the Prophet
sallallah alaihi wasallam one of them
said to his
friends w we have no other hope except
for each one of us to sit in a corner
alone and secretly call upon Allah and
mention a very sincere and honor EST
secret Act of goodness that they have
done for the sake of Allah truly and for
no one else that no one else knows about
except they and Allah about their
intentions and mention that good deed in
the hope that our creator will allow us
to use that good deed like a you know
like a free
card to release us from this
cave so the first one obviously how do
we know this the prophet Sall Ali
wasallam was told by the angel jel this
is a secret nobody knew it Jam told him
about their intentions existed a long
time ago he said the first one put his
hands up and secretly said oh
Allah I used to be a farmer and I and I
had sheep and goats and I used to go and
graze them far away in the land I had a
wife and children and two elderly
parents who were disabled or elderly
parents who were
weak and I had a
habit every time I came back from
looking after my sheep Before
Sunset I would milk whatever milk there
is from their grazing of the day and I
would go and give my parents milk before
my wife and children and before
myself one day there were no trees for
my sheep to graze in so I had to go
further away like maybe kilometers away
way he said as a result I returned back
and it was dark I went to do my usual
Act of milking the uh the livestock that
I had and when I came to see my parents
I found they had gone to
sleep so I didn't want to disturb them
to wake them up you know when you wake
up people they get a little bit
frightened or sometimes they get into a
bit of a distress he didn't want to
cause his own parents' distress he was a
very beautiful young man to his
parents he said I stayed beside them
carrying the milk in my hand waiting for
them to wake
up and my children were hungry and they
were crying but I refused I thought my
parents more important and then when
they woke up I gave them the milk and
then I fed my children my wife and
myself oh Allah if you know that I did
this truly only for your sake and for no
other reason than save us from this
cave after a little while they noticed
the rock had moved a little bit but not
enough his Good Deeds weren't good
enough the second person said oh
Allah I had a cousin a woman a young
cousin
woman who I fell passionately in love
with and my love for her grew room is so
intense that I was obsessed with
her
so one day she fell in there was a
famine and I had money so she came to me
for help and I gave her 120
Dinars in exchange I said on condition
that you sleep with
me because of her destitution and
everything and because of hunger and and
all that she
accepted and then when I met with her in
private and I was about to do the Haram
she said to me a word my cousin fear
Allah and do not take me accept in the
Halal
way he said I feared Allah and something
came you know down into my heart of fear
and even though I tempted for and
obsessed over I left her for the sake of
Allah
oh Allah if you knew that I did that for
your sake and honestly and truthfully
wholeheartedly then save us from this
cave The Rock moved a little bit but not
enough the third person said oh Allah I
had a big
business of livestock and farming and
one day I hired some workers to do a job
and when they finished I gave each one
their due and one of them he said don't
worry I won't take it now I'll come
another time so he left he said he left
and never came back for years so I used
his money to put it back into the
business and invested and my wealth Grew
From his from the wealth that he put in
he came back years later and said I
would like my
wage so I looked and I said see
everything you see here in this section
this was all the profit from your money
that I still owed you all of it is is
yours take it or half of it or whatever
and he said are you mocking me you're
going to give me all of that he says I'm
not mocking you this was from your money
and he took it all and did not leave one
leave one thing he said oh Allah if you
know that I did that act only for your
sake and honestly save us from this cave
until finally The Rock moved and Allah
subhana wa ta'ala saved
them what does this Hadith mean let's go
into it a little bit the first
one is the act of sincerity and honesty
they all did acts for the sake of Allah
and nobody knew about it if you want
your act to be powerful and to be
accepted by Allah in the highest degree
then do it in secret and don't tell
anyone about it and leave it between you
and Allah
truly number two you are allowed to use
your acts of goodness of righteousness
as an intercessor when you make Dua oh
Allah I believed in you oh Allah I
prayed for you oh Allah I did this for
someone if you know I did it from my
heart today I ask you for this some
people they said to me isn't this like
bargaining isn't this like blackmail I
said Subhan Allah obviously people need
to read more and research more about the
dean but we live in a time where we do
have to explain a lot and that is that
they're not bargaining they're not doing
anything Allah subhah wa ta'ala has
given us this good deed and he gave us
rewards for it and you can choose to use
a bit of it now and Allah will take some
of its reward from the here after and
give you here and leave the rest for the
Hereafter or Allah subhana wa tala will
be merciful to you and allow you to use
it here and in the Hereafter he'll keep
up for you why because Allah wants you
to keep your connection with Allah Allah
wants you to know how merciful he is he
wants something that keeps you talking
to Allah back and forth otherwise if
there's nothing there's no real meaning
so this is the relationship we have with
Allah subhah wa taala it's through
actions of Good Deeds that you do for
the sake of Allah and Allah doesn't get
anything out of it but it's only for you
so this is another thing number three
very important did you realize brothers
and
sisters that they were
friends that they went
together did you realize how they were
good
friends did you realize how they remind
each other of Allah
what does this tell you it tells you
brothers and sisters the company that
you hang around with in this life the
friends that you mostly hang around with
will
determine what kind
of person you are what kind of Dean you
have what kind of Hereafter you'll have
what kind of actions you'll end up doing
the way you're going to think and the
way you're going to act friends
influence
friends yeah there are some friends you
can't get rid of and there are some some
friends you can limit your contact and
there are some friends you choose and
you like to hang out more with hang
around with the friends that remind you
of Allah more the one who says to you
hey I'll call you we'll go to Masjid
together we'll come to the class
together if you do something wrong they
remind you if it's time for Salah and
you're out they say let's go and pray if
you're about to do something hard and
say no bro what are you doing we won't
do that you want to go to a place where
it's not good the friend says to you
number I'm not going to go
there if they don't want to be your
friend they help with them
but a friend will say m thank you bro
wah you know every time I ask Allah I
had a friend who wants who used to say
every morning used to say oh Allah let
the people you love be my company today
and he says it never
failed come to the Masjid meet people
who remind you of
Allah so the Friendship has an effect on
your worship and what happens to you
these friends cuz they were together
Allah subhana T assist them and help
them can you imagine one of them
had no good deeds and all he had was
sins they would have stayed in the cave
forever it needed all three do you
understand how friends affect friends
spiritually and
worldly also we find the Gathering the
Gathering that you choose to stay in has
an effect on you as well spiritually
mentally
physically and with your heart and
mind for example the prophet PE be upon
him
said any Gathering which remembers Allah
such as reading Quran you find them
making Dua you you find them doing for
example Subhan Allah alhamdulillah
they're sitting together for example
they're remembering Allah you're sitting
together as you are right now here we're
learning about Allah we learn about his
Dean any kind of gathering like that
that Angels spread their wings and they
Encompass all of
you and anyone who comes in and sits at
the back
somewhere the prophet wasallam said you
are still part of that Gathering anyone
whether they know the Gathering or don't
know the Gathering they sit AAR but
they're listening and they're with it
the prophet Sall wasallam said they also
get a share of the blessing the blessing
reaches them the Angels also put their
wings around them
and the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam also said in the Hadith which
has agreed upon the similitude of a good
company and that of a bad company is
like that of the perfume seller and the
Bellows blower meaning like a blacksmith
the blacksmith he uses in the ancient
times a device he used to blow air into
a furnace or fire so you can imagine it
was stinking there there's fire there's
ashes right but a perfume
seller said theim itude of good company
and Bad Company meaning good friends and
bad friends is like a perfume seller and
a
blacksmith if you enter into a a perfume
seller shop you're going to get one of
three benefits no fourth the first
benefit is that he will gift you a
sample of a
perfume or number two he'll sell You
perfume or number three you'll come out
smelling nice
anyway the blacksmith however there's
nothing that you get out of there
anything get out of there is fire and
even if you don't buy anything and come
out you still smell and
stink that's like good company and bad
company they affect you in that
way have you ever seen someone where you
as soon as you see them they bring a
smile to you and they remind you of
Allah as soon as you look at them you
say I don't know why when I see you I
feel peace in my
heart have you had a friend who tells
you you know what bro or
sister every time I'm with you I have to
walk away with some kind of Happiness
some kind of new knowledge and my Iman
Rises if you are a person who someone
tells you that you should go and make S
to Allah that he chose you for this that
is the best thing that the sun has ever
risen upon because Prophet wasam
said for Allah to guide one person
because of you is better than what the
sun has risen upon
I ask Allah to make us among them my
brothers and sisters in this also shows
us turning to Allah confidently don't
talk turn to Allah half-heartedly like
when you call upon Allah when you sit in
these gatherings when you read Quran
fully go confident with
Allah and I recall a Hadith which is in
bukari was sitting in the Masjid when
three men
entered and he was giving a a class he
was talking and teaching the companions
were all sitting around close to him
three men entered one of them found a
gap and he sat close to the prophet s
wasallam within the Gap the other man
got a bit shy so he sat a little bit of
a distance the third man he
left wasallam after this talk he said do
you remember the three men that entered
they said yes he said the first one he
came closer to Allah so Allah came
closer to him
he accepted him the most the second man
he got a bit shy so Allah got shy of him
too but he still included him but it's a
degree less so the closer you are to the
Gathering the better the third man he
turned he turned his back to Allah so
Allah turned away from him he didn't get
anything so don't think that if you
entered as a gathering you walk away
thinking n they don't want me here I'm I
don't belong here I'm not religious
enough then you've turned away from
Allah because Allah doesn't say say that
about you Allah wants all of you he he
Allah favors
everybody and Allah says he does not
look at your
bodies or your shapes or your figures or
your gender or your face but he looks at
your heart and then your
actions Allah looks at our hearts and
then our actions so how do you want your
heart to be presented to Allah so turn
to Allah with confidence
always we come to the next part the
first man mentioned his
parents he was standing there and the
first question I think son of you might
be
asking he was standing with the bucket
of milk his kids were crying but he
won't give them he has to wait for his
parents is that
fair we get this type of question in the
west all the time so I'm going to answer
that it is more appropriate and the
Sunnah to feed your children and your
wife first before your parents if both
of them are hungry CU
said is authentic begin with those who
are dependent on you why because your
children they can't go anywhere else and
your wife is upon
you but and this man understood it the
way he understood it he understood I've
always had this particular habit and my
entire family and children knew that
this this is the system I go on I feed
my parents first then my children that's
the first answer the second answer is
that his children were not
neglected so yeah they were hungry but
not starving so they had food but they
wanted the
milk so he didn't neglect his children
or his wife that's number two and number
three perhaps the man did not
know that in his time because it was
before the time of prophet wasallam that
his dependent
he could have given them first and then
waited for his parents and a fourth
answer is do you see how the rock we
said it moved only a little bit maybe he
could have done this act better maybe
give his children and his wife and then
wait for his parents and maybe the rock
would move even more so knowing more
about your Dean also produces greater
acts of worship that have more value
knowing less about your Dean will make
the action a little bit less too so if
you want to do your Salah better learn
how to do a Salah better if you want to
give charity learn how to give charity
better if you want to do business in Hal
learn how to do it better and your
rewards will go further inshallah so
anyway that was the answer and this
shows us this very important core of our
values in Islam and that is the
dutifulness and goodness to our parents
Allah says in the Quran
[Laughter]
[Music]
Allah says and your lord has commanded
that you worship none other than him and
to be dutiful and good to your
parents whether you are young or older
or they get older or they whatever how
long you live with them so long as they
are
alive always only choose to say words
that are good to
them the best words me respectful words
and do not even say to them
o don't do
that that's bad
or far
out this or that every time me don't
tell my brother tell my sister no can't
talk to your parents like that why
Always me it's not
fair we all fall into these problems
remember what I told you before you can
disagree with your parents if you have a
right but with
respect and at the end of the day means
to be beautiful to your parents it's the
opposite of arrogance bir is the
opposite of arrogance and uh
Rebellion so we shouldn't stomp our feet
walking away from a far out slam the
door hit the
table say things about our
parents oh what about you you do this I
didn't tell you to give birth to me all
this
talk but sh what if what if what if I
know there's a lot of wh
ifs when I talk about parents
rights I get a lot of youngsters to tell
me what if what if what if what if and
some of them will get very
angry when I talk about children's
rights the children get happy and the
parents are what 40 40 4 40 40 if you're
making our children rebellious against
us what am I supposed to do we need to
balance it parents have a right and
children have a
right Allah will question the parents
how how they treated their children and
the children Allah will question them
how they treated their parents Allah
will not mix them up Allah will not
question you if your parents did wrong
by you he will reward you for your
patience perseverance and your hurt and
he will question your parents and even
punish them if they wronged you but if
you wrong your parents Allah will not
punish them will punish
you and our our parents even if they are
bad character and don't give us our
rights we still owe them the childhood
right when they gave birth to us and
that is why wasallam he answered the
companion saying who has more right of
my companionship in life he said your
mother he said who then he said then
your mother he said who then he said
then your mother he said who then he
said then your
father why did theam say mother three
times don't confuse it he's not saying
you should love your mother more than
your father nor is he saying love your
father more than your mother it has
nothing to do with love it has nothing
to do with your feelings you can't
control your feelings the meaning of
that Hadith is the scholars told us that
because the
mother carried you in her womb for 9
months you owe her for that but your
father
didn't number two when your mother gave
birth to you in
Labor you owe her for that pain and
struggle your father didn't go through
that and number number three when she
breastfed you and weaned you while she
was in postnatal situation and
breastfeeding you until one year or two
years or whatever it is and so the
dutifulness is owed for her for that
your father did not breastfeed you of
course so these are three rights your
mother has more than your father as for
the fourth right said then your father
meaning your father and your mother from
then on from that two years of
breastfeeding onwards
they are equal they are equal so uh
another thing the scholar said was that
the mother is generally considered to be
less have less advantages in life than
your father such as for example physical
strength such as because she gives child
birth she has less advantages disad she
has disadvantages than your father to
look after herself in the rough world so
he said you as a child compensate that
for your mother three times more than
your father and that is the real meaning
of it of course there are exceptions
sometimes a father may be a man of
disability and your mother could be very
strong so who is in need of you more
than your father so it is relative but
at the same time in general normal cases
this is what it means it does not
mean that if you got
married and then your wife has a right
and then your mother comes and tells you
no no you should be your mother your
mother your mother and then she tells
you you to do things that violate the
right of your wife or your
children that you have to listen to her
no that is wrong because Allah will not
tell you to be so dutiful to your
parents to the point where he tips the
balance to the point where Allah tells
you to be so good to your parents that
it means at the expense of other
people's rights for example if your
mother or father told you go and steal
because Allah said listen to your
parents do you listen to him do you
listen to
them what if they recited the verse of
the
Quran your lord commands that you
worship none the B and to be dutiful to
your parents should you listen to them
to go and
steal no what if your parents told you
that uh you need to take the money from
your wife and give it to them
do you listen to them no what if they
told you you have to obey your
parents no not in that case not at the
expense of someone else's rights that's
her
wealth what if your parents told you you
must put your children feed them one two
three or dress them one
123 so long as it's not a religious case
if it's not something Haram that you're
doing like for example if you're being
violent to your children your parents
said don't do it then you got two
problems you got to listen to your
parents about it and you are viting
Allah subhana wa tala's command but if
your your your children dress them
certain way feed them a certain way and
your parents demand you must listen to
us do you listen to them you have an
option to listen to them but you don't
have to and it's not a violation of your
parents'
rights the violation of your parents
rights is when it's something got to do
between you and them
you and them a service for them
directly so for example if they're
hungry then you feed them if they need
some wealth you give them from your own
from your own Surplus
wealth if they need you to take them to
the doctors you take them to the doctors
make an appointment call someone for
them you call they're afraid they they
want someone to sleep over you sleep
over they grow old in age you got
siblings you rotate each one comes and
sleeps at his mom and dad's house or
mom's house or Dad's house so these
things you but not at the expense of
someone else everyone else it's up to
them your wife for example or your
husband husband for example wants to
serve your your parents that's up to him
your wife wants to serve your parents
that's up to her but we
encourage the husband and wife to work
together in helping each other's parents
because that's what marriage is based on
it's based on ma ma means love and mercy
Ma and Rah you know a lot of a lot of a
lot of Muslims I see when it comes to
family marriage especially
marriage they focus too much on rights
and duties what did Allah say exactly is
that your right no that's my right
that's your duty that's my duty no
marriage and relationship should not be
based on rights and
duties rights and Duties are in the
Quran and Sunnah for one purpose who
knows what that purpose is what are the
purpose of Allah putting rights and
duties between husband and wife and
parents and children what are the rights
and duties
therefore but no not ex means
permissible so there are many things
permissible but rights and Duties are
are compulsory they're there in order to
resolve conflicts conflicts in order
conflict so when you conflict and
disagree then we look at the rights so
okay what are the
rights but if there's no conflict what
should you be doing should we do doing
more than a duties more than the rights
any person gives up some of their
rights you don't stick like as if
there's a business transaction there's a
contract of sale and this is my area
that's your area that's like two people
living sharing the same room or in a
business sharing a house or something
your Prophet my Prophet relationships
and love is not based on rights and
duties it is based on love and mercy
meaning give up some of your rights do
more than your duties help your wife
wife helps her husband you you give more
from your wealth the wife gives from
from her wealth you help her parents she
helps your parents life is about helping
one another that's how love grows love
I've never seen love grows when people
just think about rights and duties you
get actually hard Hard hard- Hearted
with
that have people fight all the time they
come to me and say this um um can you
tell us who is is my wife in the right
or I'm in the right is my husband in I
just want to
know don't come to me just so that you
can use me to to to to to get back at
someone just to say he's wrong see I
told you oh my life you've been like
this and now and Allah sent me this she
to tell you Allah revealed it what are
you guys doing do you want
reconciliation or is this a fight if
that's how you want to live your life
always no that's not a marriage that's a
toxic marriage and the children will
learn from
you so we went on a tangent with this
one but it is important that when we
talk about Jud beautifulness and good my
dear brothers and sisters it's based on
means to do good for someone and not
remind them of what they owe you nobody
owes you anything you do it for the sake
of
Allah Allah
says whatever goodness you put forth is
for yourselves and you will find its
reward with
Allah sometimes I have you know children
they'll say to me my parents did not do
this or that for me I said to them so
Allah will question them but what about
you because I keep doing good for them I
you doing it good for them so that they
can reward you or do you want your
reward from Allah subhana wa tala when
they say I want my reward from Allah I
says then Allah is the big don't you
ever worry keep doing good for the sake
of Allah for the sake of Allah for
yourself and you know what happens is
that it has a dribble it has a a um a
ripple effect the people you marry the
children you have they will learn from
your character would you believe that if
you developed a a Behavior pattern from
childhood and then you have a child
there are evidence-based studies that
have shown that children inherit some of
your
behavior so why don't you learn to make
your behavior better and you will see
its effect in the future
inshallah that's what patience
means of course it doesn't mean that we
put our head down and get abused no you
speak up you voice your opinion but as I
said
with respect you don't have to be at the
level of the other person I once gave a
talk about how parents can lose their
children with four or five different uh
bad
characteristics meaning lose their
hearts lose their good impression of
their parents some of them will even
hate their parents based on how they
treat them but it does not justify us
mistreating our parents there's no
Revenge say I'm going to get my dad back
I'm going to get my mom back no don't do
that with parents you can't but avoid
their harm if you can now we'll talk a
little bit about that so brothers and
sisters the dutiful to the parents in
normal circumstances with the majority
of people are like that is a must upon
us and disrespecting them is a major sin
some people hit their parents some
people bash their
parents I hear a lot of I've heard
teenagers how they swear at their
parents and then they say well it's
their fault they treat me you should
hear them they swear at everybody else
if it wasn't for their upbringing I
wouldn't be swearing today remember when
he said oh God because this is how you
made me go astray we need to blame
everybody no no no brothers and sisters
just because if a parent is bad it
doesn't mean you need to be
bad if a parent mistreated you doesn't
mean you should mistreat them and
mistreat
others your parents are a test and you
are a test for
them and at the same time brothers and
sisters you never know that maybe your
parents could be the reason for you to
enter Paradise because you are too
patient or you were persevering or you
were able to work around it and you have
the ability to change this cycle when
you get older and get married and have
children of your own inshallah otherwise
the cycle
continues not everything bad that
happens to us in our life is necessarily
really bad
forever it will end sometime and
inshallah good will come come out of it
if you think of it
properly there's a poem in Arabic it
says I learned about all the bad things
not because I wanted to do the bad
things but so that but because if you
don't know the bad from the good then
you're going to fall into the bad so you
knew now what's bad change it
inshallah but at the same time there are
some parents who are completely
unbearable they are violent to the point
where the person truly is in danger
they can abuse to the point where the
person is truly in
danger several times in my life I've had
young people call me to pick them up
from a food store or from a park or from
a shopping center or from around the
corner because they ran away from home
and when I come to pick them up they got
a bloody nose they got scratched faces
they ripped apart clothes and Subhan
Allah they did nothing to their parents
but they have a parents who are
tremendously abusive there are those
people like that but that's an exception
my dear brothers and sisters not
everybody and then I had teenagers who
think that their parents are abusive but
they're not and this is the majority of
the cases by the way I don't know where
how that some of them interpret it their
own way and they and they also diagnose
their parents narcissist they say it's
their narcissist sometimes they use the
word toxic sometimes they are toxic but
I think some some some teenag just don't
know how to differentiate between what
is toxic and what's not and being a
narcissist you need to be diagnosed by a
psychiatrist or a psychologist you don't
just call people narcissists right some
people do have traits of narcissism
doesn't mean they're a narcissist that's
a big big word but I think because of
hurt and pain we say
that my brothers and
sisters in Islam it doesn't force you to
stand in the way of
danger I don't want to say too many
stories because I don't like we're in
the Masid I don't like to say bad
stories and and hang out dirty laundry
out but there are people who are truly
in a toxic uh relationship with their
parents and some parents truly are that
bad they can be violent physically they
can be violent uh spiritually using
religion to be violent to them to take
away their right they can be verbally
violent they can be mentally violent and
I've even heard of some of them go even
beyond that and further to be sever
inappropriately violent or
abusive we have children here I don't
want to use big you know strange words
or inappropriate words but it
happens it happens and I believe that a
lot of it is owed to
the
inappropriate Industries online you know
what I'm talking about the inappropriate
images and videos things that people are
addicted to which makes them even become
abusive in in that way to their own
family
members their own children so this can
happen what do we say in that case do we
tell them no be dutiful to your parent
respect them stay with them just be
patient no we're not going to say that
never we say you got to move away and
seek assistance and protection from
someone in the family or
whoever and then slowly work on healing
inshallah but other than that normal
situations where there's anger there's
and downs there's all of that stuff we
don't cut off our parents brothers and
sisters if this if there's danger if
it's too toxic a person with they're old
enough you can limit you can you can
sort of move away a little bit but not
completely the idea is to work around it
you can avoid the situations that make
you go into fight with them you can try
to change the way you talk maybe limit
the contact where if you know there's
too much fighting happening maybe change
your language I had people who had a
very bad relationship with their parents
but Subhan Allah after sitting down with
for a while we found out ways of how to
work around it I know a brother whose
parents uh disowned but there's no such
thing as disowning your child you can't
dis they're still your child but some
parents said we don't want to see you
ever
again and after I spoke to him I said to
him how long haven't you seen your
parents it's about 4 months says have
they called you no so why haven't they
called you I'm not going to call them
until they call me said your parents are
not like you don't think they're like
your friends at
school they're not going to call you you
have to initiate it goes what for they
did this and it was there and that his
parents were in the
wrong but not over something that's
dangerous it's something that won't
matter in 5 years time who cares but
sometimes we make it big in our heads
maybe because he loves him so much he
didn't expect that so what did I tell
him do you think I said tomorrow or even
tonight you grab your car wherever he
was I said you go to their house you
knock on their
door and you enter the
house he said but they'll reject me I
got don't care if they reject you you're
going to walk in you're going to hug
your mom if your dad there you're going
to hug him you're going to sit down on
the couch you're going to go to the
fridge you're going to get food out and
you're going to
eat and whatever they say keep smiling
and hugging them say I love you Mom and
Dad you can call the police to get me
out of the home this is my home I'm your
child what what can you do I'm always
your child and smile and talk and if you
have to say sorry say I'm sorry says but
I didn't do anything wrong says so what
so I'm sorry that I hurt your feelings
mom and dad I haven't called you so what
and he did it he did it and
alhamdulillah it worked perfectly yeah
his mom said a few words he kept his
call and in the end they hugged and
kissed her out and then um you know his
father comes in and then what's going on
he hugged him and H's dad it's over okay
let's eat breakfast it was
over sometimes it's just that Shan
doesn't want you to to have
contact so double up go and say I'm your
son I love you say it with anger say I
love
you so brothers and sisters this is of
course some
situations but in general I ask Allah to
assist those who are going through a
very tough time with their families and
may Allah guide our uh the parents who
are mistreating their children and may
Allah guide the children who are
mistreating their parents
Allah he just just go and do something
nice for them tonight give them a call
keep them in contact you know one
brother he said to me my mother always
um you know tells me impossible things
and she's always wrong I said doesn't
matter say you're right Mom and give her
a kiss on the forehead and if she says
stop it you just give her a kiss and say
I disagree with you Mom but I love you
so much why don't you talk like that
maybe no I can't do it
well got a work on it
man it can work inshallah it can work
with the exceptions of course we move on
to the second one the second man said
yeah I had a cousin who I was addicted
to and I wanted to have intercourse with
her and she said fear Allah and I moved
away what do we learn from that we learn
that if you stay away from something
Haram it turns into worship and you can
use it in your Dua as an act of goodness
that Allah will look at you
favorably you might say but I'm the one
it was my Desir was my but you stopped
your yourself from your
desires a friend gives you a call and
says let's come over she's here you get
into your car yeah and Pump Up the Music
and you want to go there and meet her
and then suddenly along the way you
reach and you go what am I
doing you go back home that is going to
be in your scale of Good Deeds that's a
tremendous tremendous achievement
especially if you're young young you
fought your desires and your
Temptations it's not easy to move away
from these types of Temptations I just
gave you one example there are many
different
examples and remember wasallam he said
the seven who will be shaded under
Allah's shade on a day of judgment there
will be no other shade but his Allah
says and a person or a man or a woman so
he as a man here a man whom a woman with
status and Beauty uh invites him to the
bed and then he says I fear Allah this
also goes for a woman who a man of
status and uh attractiveness uh calls a
woman to bed and she says I fear Allah
some people might say what if they're
not attractive and not people of status
the idea is anyone who tempts you that's
the idea and the more intense it is and
the more you stay away from it the
better the reward is and the less
intense it is and the more you stay away
from it the less the reward is but the
more you do it the bigger the sin is now
I don't want people saying saying oh so
I should go for someone who's
unattractive the sin is less oh sorry
the the um moving away from it the
reward is less maybe I should go and
look for an attractive woman and say I
fear Allah you can't do that the Shan
will make you go one brother he said bro
I did you know um I I I I heard about
this Hadith and I contacted this woman I
was going to contact CU she tempts me
and then we met and when we met I said I
fear Allah and I walked away said you
planned it against the Shan did you you
planned it you're trying to play tricks
here are you you can't do that you don't
do all that plan that plan was all
sinful because I want to be under the
shade of Allah Habibi you're so cute
that's not the way to do
it and the last one he made the
Dua about he has a business and he held
on to the money the wage and he invested
it and it grew and he gave him the
prophet and this my dear brothers and
sisters is in the Quran where Allah says
well
Allah praises the Believers who when
they make a contract or an agreement
they stick to
it the prophet sallallahu alh wasallam
said
is Muslims and Believers must stick to
their agreements and contracts you make
a promise with someone someone you make
a contract or an agreement of business
or money or anything and then afterwards
you go and break the terms of the
contract contct that's not a True
Believer what wasallam also told USI is
inkari and Muslim he says when two
people buy or do trade together they can
still move away so long as they have not
agreed and moved away so if you agree on
a sale and then you've both gone then
the agreement has to happen you have to
buy and sell but if you haven't moved
away then you can still change your mind
then he
said but if they if one of them breaks
the agreement after after they have
left then or both of them break it if
one of them breaks sorry he says sorry
about
that if one of them lied about something
or they hid a fault or they lied about
an agreement then their trade will be
unblessed it will there will be no Bara
in it similar when somebody sells
something and you lie about the product
to the person who's going to buy it and
you deceive them
then your wealth is not blessed and
wasallam he warned us that businessmen
who lie to make a fraudulent deal or use
Allah's Name by making Oaths to lie
about a TR say w it's a good car W it's
only that many case W it's like this W
I've
W or they lie about something A Fault In
and they've hidden it in order to
deceive the buyer or the person they
trade Witham said there will be a tyrant
on the day of judgment they will be
gathered with the tyrants on the day of
of judgment which is a major
sin Allah praises the honest trustworthy
businessmen And Trades people and people
it's not just businessmen people who do
a job let's say you're a electrician or
a plumber or whatever you are you're a
mechanic you're a trades person who
sells or invests you're a real estate
agent you're a car salesman you're a
doctor you're a teacher you're a lawyer
whatever you
are any kind kind of intera transaction
between people brothers and sisters
lying deceiving manipulating hiding the
faults is a major
sin and your wealth will not have Baraka
it will not be
blessed so my dear brothers and sisters
there is a weak Hadith but some Scholars
said it is uh it's acceptable he said
honest businessmen practicing believing
honest businessmen or people who go into
a transaction will be gathered around
the prophets and highest rank of
righteous people on the day of
judgment although this Hadith is weak
there are several different narrations
that make it stronger and anyway the
meaning is true so let us look at how
many trades or how many agreements we
have done before and which ones we lied
about which ones were we honest about
which ones did we hide things which ones
did we deceive which ones were
fraudulent my dear brothers and sisters
fear Allah with your wealth your wealth
belongs to who to Allah and anyone who
looks after the wealth that Allah has
given them Allah will give it Baraka
blessings for you your children your
wife your family your house
everything so fear Allah subhana wa
taala in your Temptations and your body
fear Allah taala in your parents and
your children and family fear Allah
subhanahu wa taala with your wealth and
your agreements and contracts with
people may Allah waala bless you and
bless your hearts question is asking if
you make Dua and it doesn't happen for
you should you be content that it didn't
happen or should you continue to make
Dua forever the answer is uh there's
nothing there's no harm in stopping
making Dua wasam he
said means be consistent don't give up
but how do you continue doing it you
don't have to do it every night every
day and then become fixated on that Dua
some people they become a little bit a
little bit overboard they get bit
obsessed with it right so what you got
to do is you got to do it with respect
while having adab manners with Allah
subhana wa ta'ala so what it means is to
continuously do it every week every
Friday every two days whenever you
remember it in your continue to ask
Allah subhana wa taala but in the
meantime listen carefully in the
meantime if what you have asked for
specifically has not happened yet in the
meantime be patient and be content and
say to yourself number one maybe it has
not happened yet because Allah knows
that it is not the good time yet or you
you can say maybe it hasn't happened yet
because Allah may or may not give it to
me at all may or may not which means
which means he's going to do something
else for me which is either he's going
to ward off a harm or replace it with
something better
but continue your Dua because guess what
you don't know when is a good time or
whether it's watered off always make the
Dua but yeah some people they want to
make a Dua for the impossible we once
gave a talk here
about Allah
says and then it goes on by
saying call your call upon your Lord
with uh fear and tranquility and peace
and belief and do not raise your voice
too high uh silently do it and then
Allah says in the in the day and in
night Allah then says but do not
transgress in your Dua meaning don't ask
for things that are impossible or Haram
for example you might say marriage oh
Allah give me so and so my Lord grant me
so and so as a husband my Lord grant me
so and so as a husband it hasn't
happened hasn't next minute you hear
that he got
engaged my Lord cut off his engagement
cut off his engagement cut off his
engagement you can't ask that Dua you
can't ask that Dua or he gets married my
Lord get them to divorce get them to
divorce get no you can't ask that Dua
and then you continue oh make him my
husband make him my husband make him my
that's it he's married so this is a type
uh so you understand what I'm saying
other than that if it's something you
know anything else you're asking that is
obviously clearly just still there then
in no harm in making that Dua I hope
that answers your question so the first
part of the question is regarding
sincerity sometimes we don't do
something or we do something out of fear
of Judgment Day and Allah's punishment
and sometimes we do it out of what out
of out of
insincerity okay so the first part of
the question if we do something out of
fear of Allah in Judgment Day it's still
an accepted insh still a valid an
accepted
act so Allah says to worship Allah out
of fear and hope so out of fearing
Allah's punishment is an act of worship
that is sincere because you believe that
Allah will judge you so you fear his
punishment the fact that you believe
that means you are doing it for his sake
you are doing it because of that but
it's not advisable to do it because of
the punishment because now what you're
doing is it does lessen the rewards it
lessens the rewards if you don't also
have hope in Allah because Allah says
in I am at my at my servants Assumption
of me so what we've got to do is we
can't assume of Allah T punishment
punishment punishment punishment if
you're a Believer and you pray to Allah
then you have to have hope because look
what Allah tells you to say when you
first start your Sal for
example ald
you mention his
name the most merciful the especially
merciful twice because Allah wants to
send a message to you to say have hope
fear is when you're doing something
wrong or you're subjected to a
Temptation and you fear Allah but
worshiping Allah when you're praying for
example out of Hope and fear is sincere
worship had you not believed in Allah
you will not fear Him you will not have
hope in him you will not fear his
punishment nor desire his paradise as
for insincerity it is when you pray for
a material gain only or you pray or you
do an act of worship because you want
some kind of benefit or you're doing it
in order to show off in front of people
if you do it half half like I come to
pray and then I'm doing it and then
suddenly I see people watching me for
example and then I make my prayer better
to impress the people and that's my
intention impress the people but also
impress Allah at the same time then your
rewards go down it's called it's it's
kind of it's a re act which means to
show off your worship but if you show
off your worship completely for the sake
of people or for material gain then your
entire worship is destroyed that's what
insincerity means my last words some
people say always okay all this talk
about Dua and Allah will save us and so
on how come the Palestinians are making
Dua night and day and I've done so many
good deeds and Allah doesn't save them
this is w a question that only Allah can
answer and I'll say only a few words
brothers and sisters when you ask a
personal Dua that's between you and
Allah for for something for yourself and
you mention a good deed there are less
factors and less
variables in your Dua but when you talk
about a land that has been occupied and
oppressed and people are being killed
that is a little bit different Allah
does respond to every individual
Palestinian you don't worry about that
Allah knows what to give who and where
and what
but if you're looking for some kind of
Victory or that Allah sends lightning or
Angels down and take them out it doesn't
work that way there are too many
variables to think about for example
Allah tells us in the Quran and what is
wrong with you that you do not fight in
the cause of Allah when the weak among
the children and the widows and the old
men and everyone in the land are saying
Oh Our Lord take us out of this land
whose people are the oppressive ones
meaning relieve us from this what is it
connected to the umah waking up and
saving them Allah also
says You must prepare yourselves of any
kind of strength and resources that you
can must in order to defeat a powerful
enemy where is the preparation a Dua is
not
enough for example there are so many
variables that if Allah were to do
exactly what we're asking exactly as it
is there are other things that come into
play so there is a wisdom from Allah and
inevitably
inevitably victory in the way of Allah
will inevitably come and there are so
manyi and that talk about it but right
now we continue to make Dua we continue
to not give up on Allah we continue to
be righteous and Believers of Allah
subhana wa ta'ala until he takes our
life and Allah will not ask you why
didn't you change the world Allah will
ask you why didn't you change yourself
and those that were entrusted to you May
allaha preserve you forgive our sins and
our shortcomings may Allah lift our
ranks among the
righteous and give us Mercy may
allaha keep our families our spouses our
parents and children St steadfast may
Allah bring death to us while we are in
a state of belief and upon Good
Deeds mamd